# Python challenges

Most of these problems are taken from [exercism.io](http://exercism.io) !

![Il buono, il brutto, il cattivo](bon-la-brute-et-le-trua-ii06-g.jpg)

The exercises are ordered roughly in order of difficulty, but it's a bit
haphazard.

## Hello World 

Write a program that greets the user by name, or by saying "Hello,
World!" if no name is given.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-hello-world/)

## Leap 

Write a program that will take a year and report if it is a leap year.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-leap/)

## Pangram 

Determine if a sentence is a pangram.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-pangram/)

## Rna Transcription 

Write a program that, given a DNA strand, returns its RNA complement
(per RNA transcription).

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-rna-transcription/)

## Hamming 

Write a program that can calculate the Hamming difference between two
DNA strands.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-hamming/)

## Word Count 

Write a program that given a phrase can count the occurrences of each
word in that phrase.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-word-count/)

## Gigasecond 

Write a program that will calculate the date that someone turned or will
celebrate their 1 Gs anniversary.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-gigasecond/)

## Bob 

Bob is a lackadaisical teenager. In conversation, his responses are very
limited.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-bob/)

## Run Length Encoding 

Implement run-length encoding and decoding.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-run-length-encoding/)

## Meetup 

Calculate the date of meetups.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-meetup/)

## Difference Of Squares 

Find the difference between the sum of the squares and the square of the
sums of the first N natural numbers.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-difference-of-squares/)

## Anagram 

Write a program that, given a word and a list of possible anagrams,
selects the correct sublist.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-anagram/)

## Allergies 

Write a program that, given a person's allergy score, can tell them
whether or not they're allergic to a given item, and their full list of
allergies.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-allergies/)

## Series 

Write a program that will take a string of digits and give you all the
contiguous substrings of length \`n\` in that string.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-series/)

## Robot Simulator 

Write a robot simulator.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-robot-simulator/)

## Sieve 

Write a program that uses the Sieve of Eratosthenes to find all the
primes from 2 up to a given number.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-sieve/)

## Atbash Cipher 

Create an implementation of the atbash cipher, an ancient encryption
system created in the Middle East.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-atbash-cipher/)

## Sum Of Multiples 

Write a program that, given a number, can find the sum of all the
multiples of particular numbers up to but not including that number.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-sum-of-multiples/)

## Acronym 

Convert a long phrase to its acronym

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-acronym/)

## Say 

Write a program that will take a number from 0 to 999,999,999,999 and
spell out that number in English.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-say/)

## Largest Series Product 

Write a program that, when given a string of digits, can calculate the
largest product for a contiguous substring of digits of length n.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-largest-series-product/)

## Kindergarten Garden 

Write a program that, given a diagram, can tell you which plants each
child in the kindergarten class is responsible for.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-kindergarten-garden/)

## Grade School 

Write a small archiving program that stores students' names along with
the grade that they are in.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-grade-school/)

## Roman Numerals 

Write a function to convert from normal numbers to Roman Numerals: e.g.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-roman-numerals/)

## Space Age 

Write a program that, given an age in seconds, calculates how old
someone is in terms of a given planet's solar years.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-space-age/)

## Grains 

Write a program that calculates the number of grains of wheat on a
chessboard given that the number on each square doubles.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-grains/)

## Luhn 

Write a program that can take a number and determine whether or not it
is valid per the Luhn formula.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-luhn/)

## Etl 

We are going to do the \`Transform\` step of an Extract-Transform-Load.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-etl/)

## Prime Factors 

Compute the prime factors of a given natural number.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-prime-factors/)

## Pig Latin 

Implement a program that translates from English to Pig Latin

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-pig-latin/)

## Simple Cipher 

Implement a simple shift cipher like Caesar and a more secure
substitution cipher

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-simple-cipher/)

## Scrabble Score 

Write a program that, given a word, computes the scrabble score for that
word.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-scrabble-score/)

## Crypto Square 

Implement the classic method for composing secret messages called a
square code.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-crypto-square/)

## Sublist 

Write a function to determine if a list is a sublist of another list.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-sublist/)

## Pythagorean Triplet 

There exists exactly one Pythagorean triplet for which a
Find the product a \* b \* c.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-pythagorean-triplet/)

## Robot Name 

Write a program that manages robot factory settings.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-robot-name/)

## Matrix 

Write a program that, given a string representing a matrix of numbers,
can return the rows and columns of that matrix.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-matrix/)

## Nth Prime 

Write a program that can tell you what the nth prime is.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-nth-prime/)

## Saddle Points 

Write a program that detects saddle points in a matrix.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-saddle-points/)

## Beer Song 

Write a program which produces the lyrics to that beloved classic, that
field-trip favorite: 99 Bottles of Beer on the Wall.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-beer-song/)

## Secret Handshake 

Write a program that will take a decimal number, and convert it to the
appropriate sequence of events for a secret handshake.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-secret-handshake/)

## Twelve Days 

Write a program that outputs the lyrics to 'The Twelve Days of
Christmas'

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-twelve-days/)

## Binary 

Write a program that will convert a binary number, represented as a
string (e.g. '101010'), to its decimal equivalent using first principles

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-binary/)

## Palindrome Products 

Write a program that can detect palindrome products in a given range.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-palindrome-products/)

## Bracket Push 

Make sure the brackets and braces all match.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-bracket-push/)

## Hexadecimal 

Write a program that will convert a hexadecimal number, represented as a
string (e.g. "10af8c"), to its decimal equivalent using first principles
(i.e. no, you may not use built-in or external libraries to accomplish
the conversion).

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-hexadecimal/)

## Minesweeper 

Write a program that adds the numbers to a minesweeper board

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-minesweeper/)

## Queen Attack 

Write a program that positions two queens on a chess board and indicates
whether or not they are positioned so that they can attack each other.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-queen-attack/)

## Wordy 

Write a program that takes a word problem and returns the answer as an
integer.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-wordy/)

## Phone Number 

Write a program that cleans up user-entered phone numbers so that they
can be sent SMS messages.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-phone-number/)

## Ocr Numbers 

Write a program that, given a 3 x 4 grid of pipes, underscores, and
spaces, can determine which number is represented, or whether it is
garbled.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-ocr-numbers/)

## House 

Write a program that outputs the nursery rhyme 'This is the House that
Jack Built'.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-house/)

## Triangle 

Write a program that can tell you if a triangle is equilateral,
isosceles, or scalene.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-triangle/)

## Poker 

Pick the best hand(s) from a list of poker hands.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-poker/)

## Zebra Puzzle 

Write a program that solves the zebra puzzle.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-zebra-puzzle/)

## Rectangles 

Count the rectangles in an ASCII diagram.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/python-rectangles/)
